warm up here. There
is something else I want to ask you about that has a
good deal to do with your father and his
activities. I noticed on a map of Texas today that
the Old Dolores settlement has been made into
something. Is it a national or a state? It is
recognized as a state historical site. Now, is
this the Rancho Dolores or the Old Hacienda? It's
the old hacienda. The old hacienda. Which, by the
way, it was the very, very first settlement in the
1700s here in the United States, or one of the first
ones.
If you will read the book that my father
co-authored. I have. And he mentions that
particularly. Which is true. That was even, the
old, the lot of settlement was settled even before
signing Nassau and any of the, definitely even
before Laredo. That was in the 1750s. It was 1750,
Jose Vasquez Borrego. That is correct. Well, then
later, your grandfather, I believe it was, no,
your great-grandfather, Cosme Martinez,
founded the Rancho Dolores. That's correct.
Which was, what, a few miles from the Hacienda? How
far is it from the Hacienda? Well, exactly the
distance, I really don't know. but it just
relatively i would say it's a short period of time i
mean short distance up the road up the road yeah not
not by by today's standards well whatever
happened to that settlement's no longer lived in
uh no it is still you might consider it a ghost
settlement now but you still have many of the old
walls
and old building sites. They're still there.
Whatever happened to that settlement? Has it ever
been set aside? It is owned by the family. And in
this case, it belongs to Antonio Martinez and Jose
Maria Martinez, who presently live in San
Antonio. By the way, Antonio Martinez died, so
it's Jose Maria Martinez and other sisters. Are
there any children? I'm afraid not. No. So there
will be some. They have nephews and nieces, and
more than likely they will probably be the ones
that eventually die. Well, I understand there was
a little bit of controversy with the Vidauris over
this. The Vidauris, that's correct. As a matter of
fact, it was the oldest case in the 49th District
Court. And just about a little better than two
years ago, that case was finally settled. and it
was settled in favor of the well how was it set
because partially part part of the of that track
was was uh settled in favor of the vidaris and the
other part in favor of the martinez but here again
my father was the one that was uh most influential
by the testimony that he provided so yeah because
it was in court for a long time it was in court for a
better a little better than 40 years And during
this period of time, I would say far more money was
spent than the actual value of that acreage. This
is not uncommon. No, that's true. Well, I wondered
what had happened to it, because I believe the last
thing I saw was in about, I guess, in the early
1960s. It was still in litigation. That is
correct. So it's finally completely out of the
courts. It's finally completely out of the
courts. It's been compromised. It's finally
settled by the 49 District Court. Judge E.J. Gason
presiding. I believe Robert Lee Bobbitt had made
the suggestion back in about 1961 or so that it be
turned over to the state of Texas as a state park.
And I wondered if anything had ever No, nothing
along those lines. That never happened. It would
be nice if something like that would be done. And
let's hope that someday it will. But that's going
to now be in the hands of the nieces and nephews and
families that live in San Antonio. That is
correct.
That is correct. Oh, by the way, whatever happened
to Robert Lee Bobbitt? Is he still alive? He died
last year. Last year. A little better than a year
ago. And... This was after his wife died, a little
later on in the death. And his son, Robert Lee
Wilder Jr., is in practice, has a law practice in
San Antonio. Was this an ongoing part of the Hicks,
Hicks, Dixon, and Bobbitt firm, or did it finally
just... No, it finally was dissolved, which many
of the papers my father still, or still have over at
the ranch. And part of it are placed over at the
Texina archives. Which, by the way, that has a lot
of history there, too. Yes, it does. Because there
were many that the law firm for the South Texas area
was this law firm of Hicks, Hicks, Dixon, and
Bobbitt. And many land. cases were handled
through this firm and they were the ones that
settled quite a number and there's considerable
amount of of information in land matters and land
titles which are within these files so there's
tremendous amount of of original or primary data
or primary source information. There's one I'd
like to ask you about. It was a big, thick file. Do
you know anything about the Perdernal?
Perdernal? Yeah. in Grant down in South Zapata
County. Well, no, I'm afraid I'm not that well
versed with it, so I think I better let it alone.
Well, I know what happened to it up to 1921. I just
wondered if it's still in existence as an entity at
all. I'm afraid I don't know. You don't know. I'll
ask around when I get to Zapata. You might ask Judge
Bravo. Judge Bravo would probably know.
Well, I'd like to ask a little bit more about your
mother. Well,
let's see. She was born in the 1890s, wasn't she?
Yes, ma'am. That's correct. When did she die? She
died six months after my father did. After your
father. And she, like I mentioned before, she was
born in Old Guerrero, Tamaulipas, Mexico. His
father was a merchant by the name of Tomas Treviño.
And Don Tomas, again, died. He was in his 80s at the
time, I understand, when he died. And my mother
married twice prior to my father. And he lived in,
after she moved from Guerrero, she lived in
Olzapata. And from there, she came down to Laredo
when he married my father. Do you know when she
moved to Old Zapata? I'm afraid I couldn't tell
you. That's the thing about it, though, that my
mother was, she really did not have the historical
interest that my father had. And consequently,
there were many things that were left unanswered,
you might say. Well, was this fairly typical of
women of her generation? That's right. That's
right. She was the type that, you know, more or less
was rather reserved, rather quiet, and would stay
in the background, this type of attitude. Again,
the Spanish influence, the Mexican attitude. But
there was a woman in your family who was apparently
not at all like that, the mother of Blas Maria
Uribe. All right, that's Doña Jesusita. Doña
Jesusita, who came from Guerrero after she was
widowed with two young sons. No, that's Blas Maria
Uribe. Doña Jesusita was his daughter. Was his
daughter, that's right, who was my father's
mother. But I'm talking about Blas Maria's
mother. Do you remember any family stories about
her? She's the one that came with two sons, a widow,
apparently a fairly young woman, crossed the
river and went to live in, do you call it Uribeño?
Uribeño. Uribeño. Uribeño. That's right. A very
strong-willed woman. That is correct. And she was
the one that initially was responsible for that
particular settlement. Now she actually founded
it herself. Well, to a great extent. And her sons
weren't old enough to be much help. No, they were
very much still in diapers, so I hear, or so I was
told. Have you ever heard any explanation for the
kind of woman she was for that day and time? I'm
afraid not. I would say that here you would have to
go to some of the Uribe's And we get a little bit more
information in that area. By the way, mentioning
Uribe's,
there's a man by the name of Derli Uribe, whose son,
Jorge Uribe, has made a family tree on the Uribe
site. And this family tree dates back to 200 years,
to the 1770s.
And it's a good-sized wall. And in this particular
family tree, he traces it all the way through and
includes, wherever possible, not only the date of
birth, but the date of death, and all the children
that follow thereafter. And he has been able to
trace it through one generation beyond the
Uribes. For instance, my father was a Martinez
Uribe. So he traced it on through my generation.
And that's where he stops. Now, how did he derive
his interest in genealogy? Or do you know that?
Again, because of the family. Well, now, you talk
to people, and this is true. both in Mexico and in
the United States. And you talk to a great many
people, and they don't know who their family is
beyond their grandparents. And then ever so
often, you find a family where this interest in
genealogy just goes all the way back. It's true of
my mother's family in Charleston that I was
telling you about. They go back. They take the
march all the way across Kentucky and the whole
thing. Now, just from your observations, why do
you think your family has retained this kind of
interest? Can you think of any reason when a lot of
other families don't? Well, I would imagine the
reason why is because we are one of the descendants
of the original settlers. And normally this, I
guess, this interest stays with the family all
along. which was the case with the original
settlers in Old Dolores and in San Ignacio. That's
also true of my family, interestingly. They were
the original settlers of Charleston, Missouri,
and little towns in that area. And this is the
reason, I guess, why you have that interest. You
can't help but be proud of the fact that your
family, somewhere down the line, was responsible
for a settlement. And in this case, our family was
responsible for a settlement in the 1700s. And
when my great-great-grandfather got this land,
which was deeded by the king of Spain, he
originally got a little better than 200,000 acres
of land. And naturally by all the... This is Jesus.
Don Jesus. Don Jesus. That's right. He actually
bought it from the heirs of Borrego. Borrego.
Borrego, yeah. And then that deed was from the king
of Spain. From the king of Spain. And so this,
again, is probably the reason why we always have a
tendency to be proud of it and make sure that we do
have that family history or the family tree or the
family background. Well, one thing I've
suspected myself, collecting these
genealogies, and I'm sort of speculating on tape.
But in every case that I've found this extensive
knowledge of family, it has been landed families.
And I just wonder if this might have something to do
with it, a need to keep track of the land. That very
well possibly would be. I suppose you still have
lands in Zapata County and cousins with lands.
That's great. What about cousin marriage? You say
your mother and father were first cousins. What
about your mother and father? I'm sorry, your
father's first and second wives were his first
cousins. That is correct. They were first
cousins. Was this common? Very common. And again,
we come back again to the principle that they did
not want the land to be divested with any greater
number of people that were considered outsiders.
Again, that's a feeling. They wanted to keep the
land within a certain group or a certain family and
try to keep as many other people to have an interest
in it. So I guess that's the reason primarily why we
come back again to the same, why cousins married
cousins, even though they were first cousins,
which was the case with my father. Well, I had an
explanation. given to me by one of my relatives,
which was a strong suspicion that they only
thought that cousins were good enough for them.
Because again, the patterning is there. The
tremendous amount of cousin marriage, I think,
was primarily third cousin Second and third
cousin marriage, but it was still generation
after generation of cousin marriage. So this is
quite prevalent, very strong. But it's, again,
something that tends to be found in, I think,
settling families who have land. I still have a
number of cousins. that are married to cousins.
And if you will go to San Ignacio and ask, and you
will find most of the Uribe's are married to
Uribe's, are Martinez and Uribe's, but they're
all cousins. Now your wife, is she any kind at all?
No. What is her name? Ancita. Ancita. But I must say
though that During my adolescent period, my
father tried to instill this into me, which I don't
think I ever paid too much attention. But he kept
on. He was the most instrumental. The fact that he
was retired, he had a considerable amount of time.
And he was very influential, because I always felt
very close to my father, even though there was
considerable difference in ages. How old was he
when you were born? He was 60 when I was born. Really
quite old. Did he ever talk to you about what it
meant to him to have children so late in life? Oh,
yes. He was extremely proud. He was extremely
proud of me. And he always had more than enough time
for me. And everywhere he went, I always tagged
along, or he would always make it a point to bring me
along. And it was all during this time that he would
try to, He used his philosophy on me. But I'm afraid
that particular philosophy never works. I try to
stay within the family. I dated a seventh cousin.
That didn't work either.
His philosophy, what do you think his philosophy
was, if you were to talk about his philosophy of
life?
He was a man that had a lot of foresight. He was quite
optimistic. And he definitely was an aggressive
man as far as his ability and initiative to do
things. And even though he was small in stature, he
definitely was tall or big in attitude and ideas.
the manner in which he himself believed in the
future. And the fact remains that he was, I would
say, one of the first ones, if not the first one, to
have a formal education and still come back to his
original town. Did any of his brothers and sisters
go to college? The youngest brother went to
college, but he never graduated. Did your father
have anything to do with that? Yes. He was the one
that paid for his schooling. He would send them
also to St. Edward's. And he was out there for about
a year and a half. But that youngest brother was a
processor. He died before my father did.
Processo, did he ever marry? No, he never did.
Well, that's something I'm a little curious
about. Maybe you could enlighten me. I've noticed
in the genealogies in your father's papers that
there are a great many people who didn't marry and
particularly I would say in the generation that
was about your father's age. There would be
families of five to ten children or more and maybe
one or two of them would marry. Do you have any idea
why this particular phenomena? I don't know. I can
only speculate. And what I can speculate is this,
that we come back again to this business of if one of
the family would be dating somebody that did not
belong, let's say, to the family, which again is
part of the cousin thing, probably they would
frown on him. And if there wasn't a cousin good
enough to marry, then they definitely wouldn't
marry, or at least their parents would be
influential enough not to let them marry. I guess,
now again, this is speculation on my part. Well,
I'm not sure. I'd have to, you know, take it to the
computer or something, but I think that I think
there was a much higher percentage of children,
and I'm thinking about some of the other
genealogies your father collected that were
other families along the river, that back say in
the 1700s and 1800s that most of the children did
marry. for the most part, but that it was in this
generation of the late 1900s that there started
being so many people who didn't marry. Now, like I
say, this is just impressionistic. I can't show
you statistics on it. And I wonder if anything
happened at that time in addition to this family
thing that would have limited the number of people
getting married. I wish I could give you some
background there, but I'm afraid I don't have any.
Well, I've speculated, too. I've wondered about
the land being subdivided, say, one time too many
or something. But you'd never heard anything
spoken to this effect. No. That's a good question.
Well, it was an interesting thing. I looked at it
and wondered if there was any real reason. Because
I had a few, I call them uncles, which were first
cousins of my father that didn't marry. And they
definitely had accumulated considerable
wealth, but yet they didn't have any children in
which they would leave other than nephews and
nieces. So the land that they accumulated then
would go to the nephews and nieces. That is
correct. And be subdivided. Right. Now, the
situation now, there are very many families that
have very large holdings. Are most of the holdings
fairly small by this time? By this time,
especially in that area, they are relatively
small. The only ones that are large, and we come
back now to a different area. We come here now to
Webb County, and that's a Benavides family,
the Doña Rosa Benavides. They own upwards of
100,000 acres of land. And that is land that has
been inherited over the years. And right now, she
has two grandsons, one by the name of Carlos Y.
Benavidez Jr. and the other one, Arturo N.
Benavidez. And this is about the largest, acreage
that I can think of that has been deeded over a
period of generations.
But as far as from my family, most of the acreage,
the greatest number I would say is about, you'd
think in terms of 10 or 12,000, possibly at the most
15,000 acres of land. I inherited a little better,
just right around 4,000, which I consider small by
our standards. Well, let's consider it by how many
cattle you can graze on it. How many cattle can you
run on 4,000 acres of Zapata County land? Well,
again, we come back again to how well improved the
acreage is. If it's open land, grazing land, then
you think in terms of 20 to 25 acres per head. If you
have highly improved land that's root plowed,
seeded either with buffelgrass or something
along that line, and has plenty of water, well,
then you definitely cut down tremendously as to
the number of acres that you need per head. In other
words, it takes a pretty high capital input on this
land to do much with it. That's right. Well, now,
the land itself, from old family stories, do you
have any idea what it was like in terms of
vegetation when the first settlers, well, say,
when Jesus Trevino came in 1830? It was very hard,
very, very hard. And this is the reason, too, why,
again... Very hard. In the sense that, I mean, here
you did not have the type of... this was more arid
land. That's what I'm thinking of. A land that did
not have too much water. And again, that's the
reason why whenever they would have partition
deeds on some of this acreage, they would always
make it a point that they would have a lane that
would lead all the way down to the river just to make
sure that there would be direct access to water. by
the same reason. So this was very arid land. Now,
today the things are very different because we
have Falcon Lake on one end and then Amistad Dam on
the other. And these two great bodies of water have
provided a greater humidity in the atmosphere,
which brings in more rain. You've really got the
meteorological records on this. It's actually
been raining more. Yes ma'am, that's right. And we
didn't have this then, or they didn't have this. So
definitely the country here was drier and the
rains were few and far between. And you had to make
sure that there would be some access to water. And
this is the reason why you have many of these, all of
the land grants and all of the partitions, they
start at the river and go east from there. Just
making sure that all of them have direct access to
the Rio Grande. Do you know how big the original
pociones were? The original Porciones, I
understand. Well, you're asking me now something
I knew but I forgot. But they were very, very large.
Well, on the map, just by measuring it, I
calculated they must be about a mile wide and about
11 miles deep. But I was just measuring on the map.
Does that sound about right? Well, they were about
or probably a little wider than that. A little
wider than a mile. That's right. That's right. And
something like 11 miles. Something like that.
That's correct. Because they really went in
further deep from the river. Very, very deep. And
then the lands beyond that, beyond the Porcionis,
when did they start being parceled out, or do you
know? I'm afraid I don't have any idea. You're
asking an individual that does not have that much
of a background in history as my father did, which
is bad. I realize that. I wish I had... Well, I'm
asking you every question I can think of right now
that has popped into my mind, and you know a lot of
them you've answered beautifully, so I might as
well keep on asking. Fine. Well, let's see, the
Porciones, they were the Webb County or the
Porciones of Laredo, and then there was the big
José Vázquez Borrego. The José Vázquez Borrego
grant was divided into... the San Ignacio
subdivision, the Dolores subdivision, and the
Corralito subdivision. And they were bigger than
Porciones. Very much so. Very much. That's right.
And the land down there, one thing I did wonder
about was the vegetation. Has it changed any since
Falcon Dam went in? Yes. You now are able to see
quite a bit of green in that area that used to be very
arid. And, of course, the improvements that have
been made now by bringing in buffled grass, which
is a new type of grass that was introduced not too
many years ago. Well, what about the irrigation
rights? For a time, it looked like, from some of the
newspaper articles in your father's paper, that
they weren't going to get any irrigation rights.
Was this changed? Did they get irrigation rights
from these? Well, yes, but only those people that
were using. the river for irrigation. The people
that did not use or didn't have it, any uses and were
not able to prove that they used it over a period of
years, they lost their water rights. So this is a
case. Now what was the justification for them
losing the water rights since that was one of the
things that the dam was built for? Well, this was a
ruling of the Texas Water Commission, and that's
the reason why the Texas Water Commission was
created, to supervise the irrigation and the
usage of water usage. And those people that never
took advantage of these water rights prior to the
dam and did not set up any kind of
How should I say it? Irrigation? Irrigation
system. They simply did not, simply lost their
water rights. Excuse me. Yes, sir. Can I just, let
me just interrupt one second. I'm trying to find a
book here. Sure. Right here. Oh, that's all right,
Harry. Thank you.
Well, did your father have anything to do with
helping people establish their irrigation
rights? Not that much. I'm afraid that this was
finally settled not too long ago, after my father
had died.
We must keep in mind that this is a relatively new
agency that was created just several years ago.
But at the time, it was a hot issue that was were
originally brought by the people from the valley.
They were the ones that initially started this
litigation. Well, was this applied in the valley,
too? This rule was applied also in the valley. Was
there any particular group of people that lost out
more than any others on this? Not that I'm aware of.
It just was sort of a catch-as-catch-can kind of
thing. That's right. That's very interesting.
About the tourism aspects, your father spent a lot
of time guiding people down to San Ignacio and this
sort of thing. How did he happen to develop his
interest in history?
his well he initially acquired it uh through the
interest that he had from from his own father who by
the way was was used quite extensively as a witness
again to settle land titles uh i know that mr he
would relate a number of occasions where mr robert
lee bobbitt would use him as a principal witness,
would use my grandfather as a principal witness.
And this was part of the influence, I would
imagine, where he acquired. And he spent a
considerable period of time in reviewing the
local folklore and the local history. Local
folklore. Now, there was very little in your
father's papers that I would call folklore. It was
pretty much, you know, history. And even in the
book, The Kingdom of Zapata, it was primarily
history rather than what I would call folklore.
What, in your opinion, is some of the folklore of
the region? Well,
how could I explain that? I don't know whether some
of the writings that you see that... See, my father
was a musician, and he really was a musician at
heart.
And over time and again, my grandfather would make
sure that his sons, who one of them, of course, my
father used to... play the violin. His other
brother, Elgosio, used to play the guitar, and his
third brother used to play the accordion. And my
grandfather would always take them along to the
different ranches in order to make these violins.
And all the people from the surrounding area would
be invited. this would bring in the atmosphere.
And there was a number of ocurridos that would be,
how should I say, composed during that time,
especially more so during periods where
political activity was very high. there's a
number of versos or verses that relate to some of
these political eras or periods. And this is part
of the, anyway. This is part of the tradition of
keeping local history in the area, isn't it? And at
the bailes, what kind of music do they play? What
kind of music?
From waltzes? to a great extent. And we used to call
them
,, which are get your partner, you know, and swing
around. Like square dances. Square dance. Except
that they used to refer to them as . And
again, you know, actual The kind of a song that used
to be normally, as a general rule, had some history
behind it. I mean, it had some story to tell. This,
to him, was one area that he always loved, he always
enjoyed. And up to the time of his death, he always,
every once in a while, would get his guitar
strum a few pieces of songs that he used to sing way
back when. And he always made it quite
interesting. So he kept his interest in music all
of his life? Oh, all the time, all the time. Did you
ever learn to play? I'm afraid
not. The bailes, were these, are they still held? I
don't know. I really don't think so, other than in
the towns, but not the way they were held, which
were in the ranchos. And especially more so, like I
say, when we go back to the time when a political
year was high, and they would try to bring in, they
would bring in the people by this by list, and then
this is how they would draw in the people and the
votes. And then from there, they'd take them over
to go in and vote. To the polls. Hey, that's a
painless way to do things. That's right. Well,
now, the politics of the area, was it pretty much
controlled locally in Zapata County, or was it
pretty tied in with Webb County? No, it was pretty
much controlled in Zapata County. In Zapata
County. And this is part of the reason, too, why
they call it the Kingdom of Zapata, because of
politics. It was pretty controlled. And it was
during the era of A.P. Spahn. Yeah. What kind of man
was he? Well, he was another George Barr, so I
understand. What kind of man was Judge Parr? He's
the one that controlled the politics of that area,
and nothing could be done unless he had say-so
there. Well, would you call him a benevolent or a
non-benevolent dictator then? I would say he's
benevolent. But still, dictator wouldn't be an
inappropriate word? I don't know, because I, to
some degree, believe in all those things. I was
raised in that philosophy. Oh, yeah, okay. In
other words, a strong figure. A strong figure. An
authoritarian figure. An authoritarian figure.
Well, was he, would you have called him a good man? I
would imagine, based on my father's comments, I
think he was a good man. How did Spohn, now where was
he from originally? Well, he came up from the east.
Is that a German name? I think it is a German name.
And how did he get there? He married a local lady
there. And that's how he got involved in local
politics. And he was one of the few people that
spoke English.
I presume he also learned Spanish. Oh, very much
so. But his ability to speak English was, I
suppose, an asset. Well, now say up to 1900, how
many people in Zapata County spoke English? Very
few. Very few. and say, when did English become, or
is it? How many people are there now who don't speak
English? Oh, there's a lot of people that don't
speak English. And like I say, the
Mexican-American is very predominant in this
area. What about the schools? Is Spanish taught in
the schools, too? It is taught in the schools, and
the problem is that it's spoken. more so than
English is. And it's a problem because they don't
get to practice the English the way they should.
But they do learn to read and write Spanish. Well,
that's my understanding. I learned to read and
write strictly to a great extent at the beginning
on my own. Then I took a course or two, but really not
that much of a formal education. Well, it's not
taught in the younger grades then. It is now being
taught. It is now. But when you were going to
school, it wasn't. It wasn't. Now the bilingual
program is very strong, quite predominant now.
And the emphasis is there. So many of these
students are now being taught in both languages,
which is good. Oh, heaven, yes. Why have to wait
until you get to college and go into your first
Spanish class? Yeah, now this is something that I
think is interesting, that there was an
educational system in Zapata County very early,
but it was predominantly Spanish. And
your father was a teacher there. He was for about,
like I said, for several years before he went ranch
town into other areas. What made politics such a,
how would you say, a fierce sort of thing in the
area? There were, I would imagine, different
groups that wanted to have control. But if
everybody was kin, were these partly family
feuds? That's right. To some degree, they were
family feuds.
That's a problem even nowadays in Zapata County,
that you have basically one cousin running
against another cousin. And the bad part about it
is that they take it quite personally, and then
they don't talk to each other. That sounds like
Charleston again. Well, it's still predominant.
It's still very predominant. So this actually
creates dissension between families. When you
get family lines, then, that are on opposite
political sides.
Very similar place. No wonder you acquired a
considerable interest in our local history. It
sounded familiar. It also sounds like a little
town of Zitosto in Mexico that was one of the towns
that I studied that was predominantly, rather
than being an Indian town, it was predominantly
Spanish. Well, a lot of people had originally
been, or their forebearers had been Indians, but
it was very much part of Mexican society, and there
were quite a few very wealthy people. Well,
several very wealthy families that had all the
land. And again, you get the same pattern, the
cousin marriages and the subdivision of the lands
and the local politics and the whole, you know, the
whole thing. So it is interesting. Well, I'm sure
there are probably 14 questions that I haven't
asked that I'd like to, and I'll think about them,
or I'll realize what they are as soon as I turn this
off.
but I didn't write any of them down. Let me turn it to
Lake College. I can't recall the name of this
sister, but she did a considerable amount of
research in local folklore and songs and corridos
this time. And this was, I would say, 15 years or so
ago. This particular sister from Marley the Lake
came over and taped my father's songs in my
father's voice. And they are on record, as is my
understanding. And that would be at Lady of the
Lake? Our Lady of the Lake College in San Antonio.
And there's a number of pieces that my father
played, accompanied by himself in his own guitar.
It's a 12-string guitar. that he sang and this
particular sister recorded. They were done over
at my father's house.